Vanda is inspired by the suggestion that
elephants can express themselves through
painting so she now wants to set Hong
free to create abstract art she hopes
that Hong superior abilities with the
brush will create a masterpiece one that
would hold its own in a top London
gallery I find I'm willing Kong to paint
her best paintings la Punk an elephant
from northern Thailand has shown
extraordinary ability with a paintbrush
her owners claims she is the most
talented elephant artist in the world
British artist panda Harvey is working
with Hall to find out if together they
can create a set of paintings worthy of
a London Art Gallery
they have only two days hello Hong this
is the start of our conversation our
visual conversation so I'm going to give
you some charcoal and we're going to see
what you can do with it any mark you
like to make just feel nice and free
anywhere you fancy this is the first
time Hong has used charcoal her mahute
noi stands well back to make sure that
he doesn't influence Hong's drawing
brilliant almost feel from you are
actually considering where you make a
mark which is very good
yeah it's amazingly intense for me
watching home draw because I didn't know
what was going to happen but I think
even the first drawings have a quality
of line and an elegance that is is very
touching so I'm dead amazed well done in
any students book that deserves a banana
Asian elephants eat over 6% of their
body weight a day equivalent to 250
kilos so for Hong
the elephant artist a banana break is
never far away okay anywhere like home
with the sketch work done
Vanda moves on to more ambitious
territory Hong now has to filled a
massive two meter stretch of canvas a
daunting prospect for any artist ah you
learn very fast more like teamwork home
soon Hong sets about painting the canvas
using her very own elephant technique
you won't be the first artist to cover
themselves in paint what you were doing
from is perfectly effective it's
probably giving you a certain amount of
physical pleasure as well I don't really
know what her body language is saying to
me but she seems to be working with a
certain amount of joy and a section as
well so it's certainly a joy to work
with her next Hong uses her trunk in an
entirely new way excellent
Tom what you've actually done is soften
the whole left hand of the painting
there are artists who don't quite work
in that way but something very similar
to it
excellent we don't however want to wash
the whole painting off at this point
let's see hon what some blue marks will
do in that wet surface under Vander's
watchful eye Hong's first masterpiece is
taking shape